Development of DS1302 library
-----------------------------

April 29, 2014  G. D. (Joe) Young <jyoung@islandnet.com>
May 3, 2014

The DS1302 is not an I2C bus device, in spite of it's using suggestive names for
the signal pins and having a command byte with the same format as the I2C.
Instead, data access is controlled by a third, chip-enable (CE) pin while the
clock/data timing is not the same as for I2C access.

The required access signals can be generated fairly simply with the arduino
digital I/O facilities -- see the example sketch DS2accessDesign or 
DS2accessBurst. The library incorporates these methods instead of the I2C access
functions.

As with other devices, the DS1302 timekeeping registers are all copied 
simultaneously to a holding set so that the entire set is time coherent from the
instant of access, even though it's possible that a time increment occurs during
the finite reading time. However, the chip does not permit multi-byte reads of
separate groups. Consequently, the library philosophy of separate reading of
time and date (to permit minimum space use when only one subset is needed), is
thwarted. The only multi-byte operation that will get this coherent time/date
set is the burst mode which must always start at 0--you can get time alone, but
if you want date alone you read time anyway. Similarly all the registers should
all be written in one burst. The library thus provides two getTime versions--for
time alone, and both time and date. The getTime and getDate individual functions
still work as expected, but the getDate actually burst-reads all the clock
registers while returning only the date. This operation allows for possible
discrepancies between the time and date. For instance, if the date is fetched at
23:59:59, and the date is then fetched a second later, the two together are 
inconsistent. Similarly, the setTime(time) and setDate(date) functions just 
byte-write the individual clock locations so inconsistent clock setting would be
possible. If the date is set first at a time not near the day rollover, then the
time is set the possibility of inconsistent setting is minimized. However, a 
setTime function with both date and time arguments is provided that uses the 
burst write mode to set all the clock register coherently. 

The DS1302, like the DS1307 does not have any alarm functions. The clockLibs 
library implements a 'software alarm' by keeping the alarm data in the chip's
read-write memory area, and providing a non-blocking checkAlarm function which
is called at the loop rate to see if the set alarm time has been reached. See
the document clockLibAlarms.txt, and the example sketch clockDispDS2_2 which
implements two alarms.


